Add v1.1.0 changelogs (#41)
meilisearch/engine-team: meilisearch-release-changelog/v1.1.0.md

	  {
	    "indexUid": "products",
	    "hits": [...],
	    "query": "Nike",
	    "processingTimeMs": 1,
	    "limit": 1,
	    "offset": 0,
	    "estimatedTotalHits": 17
	  },
	  {
	    "indexUid": "brands",
	    "hits": [...],
	    "query": "Nike",
	    "processingTimeMs": 0,
	    "limit": 1,
	    "offset": 0,
	    "estimatedTotalHits": 7
	  }
	]
}
```

Done by @dureuill in #3417

## Introduce facet stats

When using the `facets` parameter during a search, statistics about the distributed facets are displayed in a `facetStats` object. This object will contain the minimum (`min`) and the maximum (`max`) of each numerical facet corersponding to search query.

Nothing needs to be activated, this information are available by default when requiring facets during a search (with the `facets` parameter).

Done by @dureuill in #3423.

## Geo-search improvements: introcdution of `geoBoundingBox`

When doing a filter (with the `filter` parameter) during the search, you can now use the `geoBoundingBox`: `_geoBoundingBox([lat, lng], [lat, lng])`, where the first argument is the top left corner, and the second one the bottom right corner.

Done by @gmourier and @irevoire in #3405 and #3529.

> ## Transparently resize indexes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Lifting the limits on index size and count
```

> TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before v1.0, the maximum size of an index on disk was limited according to the `--max-index-size` CLI parameter, and the number of indexes that could be accessed by one Meilisearch process would depend on this value (typically, about 1000 indexes with the default setting of 100GiB for `--max-index-size`).

v1.0 removed `--max-index-size` and fixed the maximum size of indexes to 500GiB, with about 200 concurrent indexes accessible to a Meilisearch process.

The removal of `--max-index-size` was made in preparation for this release: you can now use an unlimited number of indexes, whose maximum size will be only dictated by the memory address space devoted to a single process by the OS. The limit is at about 80TiB under Linux, you might run out of disk space before reaching it!
```

# v1.1.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

> This is not your average boring release! This brand new release introduces a tons of exciting features including the demanded multi-index search! You can now do one single HTTP request to perform different searches in multiple indexes.<br>

Author: Not necessary indeed 😊

Also, already existing features have been pimped: the geo-search with the introduction of the `geoBoundingBox`, the addition of the facet stats, the CSV import including the sperator customization... Read the full changelog to be sure not to miss anything!

<!-- The following lines should ONLY be put in the official release changelogs -->

> 🧰 Most integrations (SDKs, clients, libraries) will be compatible with this version within four hours of the release. Sometimes this can take up to 48 hours, depending on the issues we encounter during the release.

Author: The second: all the features will probably not be released for the D-day, and will be let for the community

```json
{
  "queries": [
    {
      "indexUid": "products",
      "q": "Nike",
      "limit": 1
    },
    {
      "indexUid": "brands",
      "q": "Nike",
      "limit": 1
    }
  ]
}
```

In this case, Meilisearch returns an array of results for each index:

```json
{
	"results": [
	  {
	    "indexUid": "products",
	    "hits": [...],
	    "query": "Nike",
	    "processingTimeMs": 1,
	    "limit": 1,
	    "offset": 0,
	    "estimatedTotalHits": 17
	  },
	  {
	    "indexUid": "brands",
	    "hits": [...],
	    "query": "Nike",
	    "processingTimeMs": 0,
	    "limit": 1,
	    "offset": 0,
	    "estimatedTotalHits": 7
	  }
	]
}
```

Done by @dureuill in #3417

## Introduce facet stats

When using the `facets` parameter during a search, statistics about the distributed facets are displayed in a `facetStats` object. This object will contain the minimum (`min`) and the maximum (`max`) of each numerical facet corersponding to search query.

Nothing needs to be activated, this information are available by default when requiring facets during a search (with the `facets` parameter).

Done by @dureuill in #3423.

## Geo-search improvements: introcdution of `geoBoundingBox`

> When doing a filter (with the `filter` parameter) during the search, you can now use the `geoBoundingBox`: `_geoBoundingBox([lat, lng], [lat, lng])`, where the first argument is the top left corner, and the second one the bottom right corner.

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
Use the `filter` search parameter and the `_geoBoundingBox` filter expression to obtain results contained within a specific geographic area.

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/restaurants/search' \
  -H 'Content-type:application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "filter": "_geoBoundingBox([45.472735, 9.184019],[45.473711, 9.185613] )" }'
```

`_geoBoundingBox([lat, lng], [lat, lng])` accepts two parameters: one array specifying the top left corner, and a second array specifying the bottom right corner.
````

Done by @gmourier and @irevoire in #3405 and #3529.

> ## Lifting the limits on index size and count

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Removing limits on index size and count
```

> Before v1.0, the maximum size of an index on disk was limited according to the `--max-index-size` CLI parameter, and the number of indexes that could be accessed by one Meilisearch process would depend on this value (typically, about 1000 indexes with the default setting of 100GiB for `--max-index-size`).
> 
> v1.0 removed `--max-index-size` and fixed the maximum size of indexes to 500GiB, with about 200 concurrent indexes accessible to a Meilisearch process.
> 
> The removal of `--max-index-size` was made in preparation for this release: you can now use an unlimited number of indexes, whose maximum size will be only dictated by the memory address space devoted to a single process by the OS. The limit is at about 80TiB under Linux, you might run out of disk space before reaching it!

Reviewer 2: This is brilliantly explained, but I would focus on describing current behaviour instead of describing multiple iterations for the sake of brevity.

```suggestion
Meilisearch no longer limits the size nor the amount of indexes a single instance may contain. You can now create an unlimited number of indexes, whose maximum size will be only dictated by the memory address space devoted to a single process by the OS. Under Linux, the limit is at about 80TiB.
```

Author: @dureuill what do you think?
I like the gui suggestion, but I want to be sure we don't miss anything important

Reviewer: gui's suggestion looks fine to me :+1:

Done by @dureuill in #3319, #3331 and #3544.

> ## Experimental feature: monitore the Meilisearch usage by using Prometheus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Experimental feature: monitor Meilisearch usage with Prometheus
```

> This release introduces an experimental feature to follow your metrics by using Prometheus.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release introduces an experimental feature allowing you to monitor metrics with  [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/).
```

When launching Meilisearch, use the following flag:

```bash
meilisearch --experimental-enable-metrics
```

The `/metrics` route will be available and compatible with Prometheus.

> 🗣️ Since this feature is experimental, we need you to iterate on it! You are more than welcome to share your thoughts and your feedback on [this discussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/discussions/3518).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
🗣️ Since this feature is experimental, we need your help to iterate on it! You are more than welcome to share your thoughts and your feedback on [this discussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/discussions/3518).
```

> ⚠️ The experimental feature API can break between 2 versions of Meilisearch. Be careful if using it in production.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
⚠️ The experimental feature API can break between Meilisearch versions. Be careful if using it in production.
```

Done by @irevoire, @dureuill, and @james-2001 in #3496, #3524, #3538 and #3543.

> ## Improve the language support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Improve language support
```

* Enhance Greek support by normalizing diacritics and final sigma
* Enhance Arabic support by ignoring Tatweel

> * Enhance language detection: the language is now detected when indexing to prevent from wrong language detections during the search

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Enhance language detection: detection now happens during indexing, reducing erroneous language recognition during search
```

> Done in #3347 and on the [Charabia side](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/releases/tag/v0.7.1) by @choznerol, @cymruu, @james-2001 and @ManyTheFish.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Done in #3347 and on [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/releases/tag/v0.7.1) by @choznerol, @cymruu, @james-2001 and @ManyTheFish.
```

## Other improvements

> * Allow using wildcards (`*`) at the end of index names when creating API keys or tenant tokens (#3174) @Kerollmops & @akhildevelops

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Allow wildcards (`*`) at the end of index names when creating API keys or tenant tokens (#3174) @Kerollmops & @akhildevelops
```

> * Customize the CSV delimiter (default: `,`) by using the `csvDelimiter` parameter during the document addition and update (#3505, #3534) @MixusMinimax and @irevoire

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Customize the CSV delimiter (default: `,`) with the `csvDelimiter` parameter in the document addition and update endpoint (#3505, #3534) @MixusMinimax and @irevoire
```

* Improve error messages: introduction of "did you mean ...?" suggestions when doing typos on a Meilisearch parameter (#3492) @irevoire

> * Batch together addition and deletion tasks to speed up indextation. You don't have to do anything to activate it, just enjoy! (#3470) @irevoire

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Batch addition and deletion tasks together to speed up indexing (#3470) @irevoire
```

Author: I added `Automatically` at the beginning of the sentence to make people understand there is nothing to do or even understand -> it just happens by default

* Accept `null` as a valid `_geo` field when importing or updating documents (#3515) @irevoire
* Reduce crate size (from ~200MB to ~50MB) by compressing dictionaries (#3347) @ManyTheFish
<!-- The following line should NOT be put in RC0 release changelogs because not present yet -->

> * Cache the result of the indexes stats (#3541) @irevoire

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Cache the indexes stats results (#3541) @irevoire
```

# Fixes 🐞

> * Enhance facet string normalization: `sortBy` is now correct for accented characters (#3372) @ManyTheFish

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improve facet string normalization: fixes issues when using `sortBy` with accented characters (#3372) @ManyTheFish
```

> * Fix web-interface issues: bump version of mini-dashboard to [v0.2.6](https://github.com/meilisearch/mini-dashboard/releases/tag/v0.2.6) (#3514) @bidoubiwa

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix web interface issues: bump version of search preview to [v0.2.6](https://github.com/meilisearch/mini-dashboard/releases/tag/v0.2.6) (#3514) @bidoubiwa
```

* Unify "Bad latitude" and "Bad longitude" errors (#3479) @cymruu

> * Prevent from "Cannot allocate memory" errors when creating a lot of indexes (#3331) @dureuill

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Prevent "Cannot allocate memory" errors when creating a lot of indexes (#3331) @dureuill
```

* Fix Japanese support (see [the related issue](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/2403)) thanks to the new language detection (#3347) @ManyTheFish

# Misc

The following changes do not impact user experience.

* GitHub CIs & test suite
  * Create a preview environment for every PR using Uffizzi (#3040 and #3482) @waveywaves
  * Add tests with rust nightly in CI (#3495) @ztkmkoo
  * Add `--all` to test CI (#3403) @curquiza
  * Remove cache from test CI to prevent Windows CI failures (#3422) @curquiza
  * Pin Rust version in Clippy job (#3451) @curquiza
  * Update comments in version bump CI (#3519) @curquiza
  * Fix cargo flaky (#3348) @irevoire
  * Make clippy happy for Rust 1.67, allow `uninlined_format_args` (#3434) @dureuill

> * Documentation

Reviewer 2: Can we use a different name for this to avoid users reading it as a changelog for the documentation website?

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/multi-search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'
  --data-binary '{
    "queries": [
       {
         "indexUid": "products",
         "q": "Nike",
         "limit": 1
       },
      {
         "indexUid": "brands",
         "q": "Nike",
         "limit": 1
      }
    ]
  }'
```

When you use the multi-index search endpoint, Meilisearch returns an array of results for each queried index:

```json
{
	"results": [
	  {
	    "indexUid": "products",
	    "hits": […],
	    "query": "Nike",
	    "processingTimeMs": 1,
	    "limit": 1,
	    "offset": 0,
	    "estimatedTotalHits": 17
	  },
	  {
	    "indexUid": "brands",
	    "hits": […],
	    "query": "Nike",
	    "processingTimeMs": 0,
	    "limit": 1,
	    "offset": 0,
	    "estimatedTotalHits": 7
	  }
	]
}
```

Done by @dureuill in #3417

## Introduce `facetStats`

Queries containing the `facets` parameter now include a `facetStats` object by default:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "facets": ["price"]
  }'
```

> `facetStats` only lists facets containing numerical values. Facets with other values are not included in the `facetStats` object. This object contains the minimum (`min`) and the maximum (`max`) of each numerical facet:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`facetStats` only lists facets containing numerical values. Facets with other types of values are not included in the `facetStats` object. This object contains the minimum (`min`) and the maximum (`max`) of each numerical facet:
```

  },
  "facetStats": {
    "price": {
      "min": 2,
      "max": 60
    }
  }
}
```

Done by @dureuill in #3423.

## New geosearch filter: `_geoBoundingBox`

Use the `filter` search parameter and the `_geoBoundingBox` filter expression to obtain results contained within a specific geographic area.

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/restaurants/search' \
  -H 'Content-type:application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "filter": "_geoBoundingBox([45.472735, 9.184019],[45.473711, 9.185613] )" }'
```

`_geoBoundingBox([lat, lng], [lat, lng])` accepts two parameters: one array specifying the top left corner, and a second array specifying the bottom right corner.

Done by @gmourier and @irevoire in #3405 and #3529.

## Removing limits on index size and count

Meilisearch no longer limits the size nor the amount of indexes a single instance may contain. You can now create an unlimited number of indexes, whose maximum size will be only dictated by the memory address space devoted to a single process by the OS. Under Linux, the limit is at about 80TiB.

Done by @dureuill in #3319, #3331 and #3544.

## Experimental feature: monitor Meilisearch usage with Prometheus

> This release introduces an experimental feature allowing you to monitor metrics with  [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release introduces an experimental feature allowing you to monitor metrics with [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/).
```

# v1.1.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

Meilisearch v1.1.0 introduces the much-requested multi-index search! You can now use one single HTTP request to perform different searches in multiple indexes.

Additional new features include: `geoBoundingBox` geosearch filter, addition of a `facetStats` objects to queries using the `facets` search parameters, and customization of CSV separators.

<!-- The following lines should ONLY be put in the official release changelogs -->

> 🧰 All the integrations (SDKs, clients, libraries) will be compatible with this new Meilisearch version between 4 to 48 hours after the release. However, some new feature usages might miss in the less used integrations. Detailed information are available in each related SDK repository. You can let us know there if something is missing, or contribute directly to the repository. Every contribution is welcome! ❤️

Reviewer 2: Is this too playful?

```suggestion
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available. 

Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that <3).
```

	    "offset": 0,
	    "estimatedTotalHits": 7
	  }
	]
}
```

Done by @dureuill in #3417

## Introduce `facetStats`

Queries containing the `facets` parameter now include a `facetStats` object by default:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "facets": ["price"]
  }'
```

`facetStats` only lists facets containing numerical values. Facets with other types of values are not included in the `facetStats` object. This object contains the minimum (`min`) and the maximum (`max`) of each numerical facet:

```json
{
  "hits": […],
  "facetDistribution": {
    "price": {…}
  },
  "facetStats": {
    "price": {
      "min": 2,
      "max": 60
    }
  }
}
```

Done by @dureuill in #3423.

## New geosearch filter: `_geoBoundingBox`

Use the `filter` search parameter and the `_geoBoundingBox` filter expression to obtain results contained within a specific geographic area.

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/restaurants/search' \
  -H 'Content-type:application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "filter": "_geoBoundingBox([45.472735, 9.184019],[45.473711, 9.185613] )" }'
```

> `_geoBoundingBox([lat, lng], [lat, lng])` accepts two parameters: one array specifying the top left corner, and a second array specifying the bottom right corner.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`_geoBoundingBox([lat, lng], [lat, lng])` accepts two parameters: one array specifying the top right corner, and a second array specifying the bottom left corner.
```

Updating the change log regarding https://github.com/meilisearch/specifications/pull/223/commits/38a715c0721f7ffce57cc85d2f2f90889d2f077b

This release introduces an experimental feature allowing you to monitor metrics with [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/).

When launching Meilisearch, use the following flag:

```bash
meilisearch --experimental-enable-metrics
```

The `/metrics` route will be available and compatible with Prometheus.

🗣️ Since this feature is experimental, we need your help to iterate on it! You are more than welcome to share your thoughts and your feedback on [this discussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/discussions/3518).

⚠️ The experimental feature API can break between Meilisearch versions. Be careful if using it in production.

Done by @irevoire, @dureuill, and @james-2001 in #3496, #3524, #3538 and #3543.

## Improve language support

* Enhance Greek support by normalizing diacritics and final sigma
* Enhance Arabic support by ignoring Tatweel
* Enhance language detection: detection now happens during indexing, reducing erroneous language recognition during search

🇯🇵 For people using Japanese datasets, language detection might still fail on small datasets. For instance, a song dataset that only contains titles in Japanese will still be detected as Chinese.<br>

> If you encounter any issue, we recommend you use [this prototype](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/3588) which is an alternative version of Meilisearch v1.1 for Japanese users. Please, let us know about any feedback you may have in [this dicussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/532).

Author: @ManyTheFish do you agree with this

Reviewer 4: Yup! Thank you @curquiza!
